---
layout: post
title: Blog intro
---

Dear reader,

This is the first post of this blog, and I would like to introduce, what this
blog will be about, what kind of information wou will find here, and what is the
motivation behing all this.

Fortunately my project proposal has been accepted to be carried out as part of
the Google Summer of Code 2018 programme. As a consequence I will be working on
the nftables project, which is a possible successor of iptables. The public
details on my project are available
[here](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/5444605277896704/#5597779292848128)

This is an opportunity for me to learn *a lot* about parts of Linux networking
that are usually out of scope for most of the users and administrators (and have
been for me, too), and also get involved in kernel-level development with the help
of the community.
I have been dealing with it intensively for only some days, and I have already
leant a lot.

During my former tries and education I found it quite hard to get clear about
things that are not trivial at all and in dozens of cases it is hard to even ask
the correct question.
Even Google needs the appropriate keywords to show you what you want to know.

As I now have the support of the community to deal with a specific set of
problems, I thought it would be benefficial to share what and how I learn during
the summer to help those trying to get to know to these subjects, and probably
to get closer to netfilter development.

This blog is thus going to serve as a documentation of what problems I face, and
what extra information was necessary to resolve them. Of course, all descriptions
are based on my level of knowledge, although I will try to describe things on a
way that is beneficial to those who are less avare of this area than me.

Hope to help with this to some people.

Regards,
Máté

*Ps.: This blog is also a documentation for myself not to forget about what I
have already learned once :). This attitude can result in otherwise useless
information in some posts.*

